---
title: "On the parameterized complexity of the Maximum Exposure Problem"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-02-01-parameterized-complexity-maximum-exposure-problem
excerpt: 'We investigate the parameterized complexity of the Maximum Exposure Problem (MEP). Given a range space (R, P) where R is the set of ranges containing a set P of points and an integer k, MEP asks for k ranges, which on removal results in the maximum number of exposed points. A point p is said to be exposed when p is not contained in any of the ranges in R. The problem is known to be NP-hard. In this paper, we give fixed-parameter tractable results of MEP with respect to different parameterizations.'
date: 2023-02-01
venue: 'Information Processing Letters'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipl.2022.106338'
citation: 'Raman, R., John J S, S., R, S., & Methirumangalath, S. (2023). On the parameterized complexity of the Maximum Exposure Problem. Information Processing Letters, 180, 106338. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipl.2022.106338.'
---

We investigate the parameterized complexity of the Maximum Exposure Problem (MEP). Given a range space (R, P) where R is the set of ranges containing a set P of points and an integer k, MEP asks for k ranges, which on removal results in the maximum number of exposed points. A point p is said to be exposed when p is not contained in any of the ranges in R. The problem is known to be NP-hard. In this paper, we give fixed-parameter tractable results of MEP with respect to different parameterizations.

Highlights of the paper
1. Maximum Exposure Problem (MEP) is not studied till date in the realm of parameterized complexity.
2. MEP is proved to be W[1]-hard with respect to the solution size, using parameterized reductions.
3. MEP is proved to be Fixed Parameter Tractable (FPT) for a multiparameterization, using Greediness of parameterization approach.
4. MEP is proved to be Fixed Parameter Tractable (FPT) with respect to the number of cells that contain points.
